Project Lattice PRFAQ (#11643)
radius-project/radius: eng/design-notes/github/2026-05-github-radius-prfaq.md

SAN FRANCISCO, CA—November 12, 2026—Today, GitHub and the Microsoft Azure Incubations team announced GitHub Radius, a set of new capabilities in the GitHub Copilot application for developers to define, deploy, and operate their cloud-native application entirely within the Copilot app. The Copilot app now integrates the open-source, CNCF Sandbox project Radius to enable applications to be deployed to Kubernetes, AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud with a simple chat command.

Modern application developers spend a disproportionate share of their time on deployment plumbing rather than on their applications. Even a simple web service plus a database typically requires the developer to pick an infrastructure as code (IaC) tool, learn a cloud provider's identity model, wire up a CI/CD workflow, and keep all of it working over time. Skills earned for one cloud rarely transfer to another. For individual developers, small teams, and open-source maintainers, this overhead is often the difference between shipping and abandoning a project.

> GitHub Radius removes that overhead by making the application—not the infrastructure—the primary unit developers work with. The developer describes intent in plain English to GitHub Copilot. Copilot analyzes the developer’s repositories to identify the application’s services, dependencies, and runtime requirements. It then builds a cloud-agnostic deployment model and deploys the application to the developer's chosen cloud platform using the built-in deployment engine. The same conversational workflow works whether the target is Kubernetes, AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud, and whether the environment is local, dev, or production. The developer never leaves the Copilot app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub Radius removes that overhead by making the application—not the infrastructure—the primary unit developers work with. The developer describes intent in natural language to GitHub Copilot. Copilot analyzes the developer’s repositories to identify the application’s services, dependencies, and runtime requirements. It then builds a cloud-agnostic deployment model and deploys the application to the developer's chosen cloud platform using the built-in deployment engine. The same conversational workflow works whether the target is Kubernetes, AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud, and whether the environment is local, dev, or production. The developer never leaves the Copilot app.
```

> 

Reviewer: Recommend adding:
1. Details about the app graph visualizations that get presented alongside their code and PRs
2. Description of the advanced app troubleshooting scenario that makes use of the Radius app graph data

Author: Missing the PR diff view. Need to add a mention in the PR and an individual FAQ.

Author: Emphasize visualizing the application. The GitHub world is becoming more and more visual.

Author: Added visualization to the PR and Q7.

GitHub Radius is available in public preview today for anyone with access to the GitHub Copilot app. To get started, open the Copilot app, add a repository, and ask Copilot to deploy the application. Learn more at https://radapp.io.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### General FAQs

**Q1: What is GitHub Radius?**

> GitHub Radius is a capability inside the GitHub Copilot app that lets developers define, deploy, and operate cloud-native applications through conversation. It analyzes a repository to produce an application model, walks the developer through connecting a cloud environment, deploys the application on request, and can detect differences between the application deployment's desired and actual state. The developer only needs to interact with the GitHub Copilot app.

Reviewer 2: `It can detect differences between the application deployment's desired and actual state.`

What does this mean? Are we talking about plan before deploy here or something else ?

Author: Drift detection. This is a key feature that is missing from Radius today. We can talk about whether we should include it here or not. Probably not MVP.

Author: Add internal FAQ about the relative priority.

Author: Added to Q21.

**Q2: What problem does GitHub Radius solve?**

Getting an application from a repository into the cloud is still the hardest part of most small projects. Developers must learn one or more IaC tools, a container runtime, the cloud provider's identity model, and the cloud provider's networking stack. They must build all of this themselves, keep it working, and rebuild most of it if they ever change clouds. The result is that a large fraction of a developer's time goes to deployment plumbing instead of to the application. AI code-generation tools can produce IaC, but the output can vary significantly between runs. A team that asks an AI to generate Terraform for the same application twice will get two different results, neither of which has been reviewed or tested. 

GitHub Radius solves both of these challenges by splitting the problem in two: AI is used only to model the application, while the infrastructure is provisioned using deterministic, community-reviewed and maintained IaC modules. The result is developers never have to worry about creating or maintaining IaC or other deployment scripts and artifacts.

> **Q3: Who is GitHub Radius for?**

Reviewer 2: Can we say GH Radius is for aspiring developers from other disciplines such as sales, marketing etc. wanting to build deploy AI apps in a safe and secure way with guardrails ?

Author: Added

GitHub Radius is built for individual developers and small teams building line-of-business applications, prototypes, and internal tools at a small business. It also includes maintainers of open-source projects who want their contributors and evaluators to be able to deploy the project to their own cloud with a single conversation. GitHub Radius assumes the developer is comfortable with Git and GitHub but is not a Kubernetes operator or a cloud infrastructure expert.

> GitHub Radius is not built for enterprise platform teams operating shared infrastructure for hundreds of developers. Teams with those requirements should continue to use the Kubernetes-hosted version of Radius.

Reviewer: Should have an additional FAQ for whether users may transition to hosted Radius from GitHub Radius if they outgrow its capabilities.

Author: Added Q20

**Q14: How does the deployment actually run? Is there a Radius control plane?**

There is no long-running control plane. Synchronous operations the developer expects to happen instantly, such as viewing the application graph or editing application resources, happen in the agent's process and complete in seconds. Asynchronous operations the developer already expects to take minutes, such as building images and provisioning cloud resources, happen in a GitHub Actions runner inside the developer's own repository. The Radius deployment engine runs inside the runner, performs the requested operation, writes status back to the `.radius` branch as it progresses, and exits. The developer's cloud credentials are stored as GitHub environment secrets and never leave GitHub.

**Q15: Is GitHub Radius idempotent? Does it detect drift?**

> Yes. GitHub Radius compares the deployed application against the application graph and reconciles the two. The developer can ask Copilot at any time whether anything in the cloud differs from what they expect, and Copilot will report drift in plain English: resources that are missing, resources that have been modified outside the model, or resources present in the cloud that the model does not know about. Copilot offers two reconciliation paths for each case: update the model to match reality, or redeploy to make reality match the model.

Reviewer: I thought we were keeping reconciliation out of scope for now?

Author: Added as non-MVP in Q22.

**Q18: What happens when I am done with a project?**

The developer asks Copilot to tear down a specific environment or every environment for the application. Copilot highlights on the Deployment panel exactly what will be destroyed, requires explicit confirmation, and dispatches a teardown workflow.

### Internal FAQs

**Q19: How is GitHub Radius different from the Kubernetes-based versions of Radius?**

Earlier versions of Radius were delivered as a Kubernetes-hosted control plane with a `rad` CLI as the primary client. That shape is the right fit for enterprise platform teams running shared infrastructure for many developers, and it remains supported for those teams. GitHub Radius is a different delivery of the same core idea, optimized for individual developers, small teams, and open-source maintainers who are using the GitHub Copilot app. Key changes include:

* The Radius control plane (referred to as the Radius deployment engine above for customers) runs ephemerally in a GitHub Actions runner instead of permanently on Kubernetes. 
* The GitHub Radius data store is a set of JSON files in a Git orphaned branch named `.radius` rather than etcd. 

> * Environments and environment metadata are stored as GitHub Environments and environment variables respectively rather than as Application.Core/environments or Radius.Core/environments resources.

Reviewer: What about the ability to declaratively create Radius Environments in GitHub? Wouldn't those require us to model Environments as `Radius.Core/environments` resources?

Author: Add a mention about credentials being on the environment for GitHub Radius.

Author: Added to Q21 as a new feature.

* Deployments are stored as GitHub Deployments.
* The Radius CLI is replaced with GitHub Copilot and a set of agent skills and associated scripts which read and write from/to the Radius data store (for applications and resources) and GitHub (for environments and deployments).
* Resource groups are not used in GitHub Radius.
* Workspaces are not used in GitHub Radius.

> **Q20: Why are application definitions no longer in Bicep? Doesn't that go against our objective with Radius?**

Reviewer: I'm not sure I agree with this...if the canonical app definitions are not stored as bicep artifacts, then there is no path to seamlessly migrate from GitHub Radius to "hosted" Radius.

Author: Added Q20.

* **Deep linking from the application graph.** The application graph visualization in GitHub Radius includes the ability to right-click on a resource and click on a link to a relevant resource. For application resources, right-clicking shows a link to the source code which requires/composes the application resource (e.g. a Dockerfile for a container image). For cloud resources, right-clicking shows a link to the appropriate cloud console (e.g., a database links to the RDS database in the AWS console).
* **Preview deployments.** The ability to preview the cloud resources that will be created prior to an actual deployment. When previewing a deployment to a specific environment, the user is presented with an application graph which contains the abstract application resources (Radius.Compute/containers, Radius.Data/postgreSqlDatabases, etc.) as well as placeholder cloud resources (Kubernetes Deployment and Service, AWS RDS, Azure PostgreSQL Database Flexible Server, etc.).

> * **Drift detection and reconciliation.** Kubernetes-based Radius lacks a "what's different between my model and what's actually deployed?" capability. GitHub Radius adds explicit drift detection with two reconciliation paths (update model to match reality, or redeploy to match model).

Reviewer: Would like to discuss if this is within scope for the initial implementation.

Author: Not MVP. Q21.

**Q23: How does the developer know Radius is involved?**

By design, they do not, unless they look. The Copilot app is the surface. The conversation is the interface. The application graph is stored in their repository. If a developer wants to understand how the capability works or where to ask for help, a discreet "powered by Radius" reference and an `/about` command in the skills point at the Radius project and community. We expect the vast majority of users will never need either.

**Q24: What is the relationship between GitHub Radius and the Kubernetes-based version going forward?** 

Our objective remains the broad adoption of Kubernetes-based Radius by enterprises. GitHub Radius is targeted at a distinctly different non-enterprise persona. We believe with Radius built into the Copilot app, enterprises will gain greater exposure to Radius which will drive adoption of Kubernetes-based Radius. 

> Developers who use GitHub Radius for side projects and prototypes will encounter Radius's application model, and when they move to an enterprise team with shared infrastructure needs, they will already understand the mental model and advocate for Kubernetes-based Radius.

Reviewer: I think there needs to be a story for the ability to migrate from GitHub Radius to "hosted" Radius.

Author: Added Q19.

“Developers use GitHub Copilot to build modern applications quickly. With GitHub Radius now in the Copilot app, they can deploy to the cloud just as easily using the same interface and AI agent they already use,” said Mario Rodriguez, Chief Product Officer at GitHub.

“AI can simplify cloud deployment, but it must do so without sacrificing determinism or control," said Mark Russinovich, Chief Technology Officer of Azure. "With GitHub Radius, we’re combining the accessibility of natural language with a system that produces predictable, inspectable outcomes developers can trust.”

> GitHub Radius is delivered as a set of agent skills and dynamic visualizations built directly into the Copilot app, and an accompanying deployment engine running on GitHub Actions using a library of community-reviewed and maintained IaC modules. There is nothing to install on the developer's workstation beyond the Copilot app itself. When a developer asks Copilot to deploy an application, it presents a visualization of the application model the developer can review and refine. From that point forward, the entire application lifecycle is available through conversation: planning a deployment, deploying to an environment, promoting between environments, detecting and reconciling drift between the model and reality, modifying the application, and tearing it down cleanly when the work is done. For example, when a developer asks, “Deploy my Node.js application to AWS,” Copilot identifies dependencies (e.g., a container and a PostgreSQL database), constructs an application model, and deploys the application's container to Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) and Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS). If the developer asks, "Deploy to Azure" the same application would be deployed to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) and Azure Database for PostgreSQL.

Reviewer 3: The Copilot App just released Canvas extensions on Monday that allow us to build customizable, agent-driven UI pages in the app (similar to the existing Github Radius UI extension). Have we given any thought to including that as part of this feature or will we continue with a purely skills/chat-centric flow?

Author: I'm imagining the environment setup is chat initiated but GUI driven. We'll need to work through the deployment user stories. Once this document is merged, we will focus on detailing out each user story.

> GitHub Radius is delivered as a set of agent skills and dynamic visualizations built directly into the Copilot app, and an accompanying deployment engine running on GitHub Actions using a library of community-reviewed and maintained IaC modules. There is nothing to install on the developer's workstation beyond the Copilot app itself. When a developer asks Copilot to deploy an application, it presents a visualization of the application model the developer can review and refine. From that point forward, the entire application lifecycle is available through conversation: planning a deployment, deploying to an environment, promoting between environments, detecting and reconciling drift between the model and reality, modifying the application, and tearing it down cleanly when the work is done. For example, when a developer asks, “Deploy my Node.js application to AWS,” Copilot identifies dependencies (e.g., a container and a PostgreSQL database), constructs an application model, and deploys the application's container to Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) and Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS). If the developer asks, "Deploy to Azure" the same application would be deployed to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) and Azure Database for PostgreSQL.

Reviewer 4: I wonder if we should frame the Azure vs AWS example slightly differently. In practice, I would imagine developers usually don’t typically have an option between clouds within their org.

Reviewer 5: Is there any support for deploying to local kind/k3d clusters supporting dev inner loop?

Author: Added 
**Q9: Can GitHub Radius deploy to my local development workstation or my on-premises environment?**

GitHub Radius is designed to deploy to AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud only. Enabling the local development loop is a future feature.

GitHub Radius is available in public preview today for anyone with access to the Copilot app. To get started, open the Copilot app, add a repository, and ask Copilot to deploy the application. Learn more at https://radapp.io.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### General FAQs

**Q1: What is GitHub Radius?**

GitHub Radius is a capability inside the GitHub Copilot application that lets developers define, deploy, and operate cloud-native applications through conversation. It analyzes a repository to produce an application model, walks the developer through connecting a cloud environment, deploys the application on request, and can detect differences between the application deployment's desired and actual state. The developer only needs to interact with the Copilot app.

**Q2: What problem does GitHub Radius solve?**

> Getting an application from a repository into the cloud is still the hardest part of most small projects. Developers must learn one or more IaC tools, a container runtime, the cloud provider's identity model, and the cloud provider's networking stack. They must build all of this themselves, keep it working, and rebuild most of it if they ever change clouds. The result is that a large fraction of a developer's time goes to deployment plumbing instead of to the application. AI coding agents can easily produce IaC, but the output can vary significantly between runs. A team that asks an AI to generate Terraform for the same application twice will get two different results, neither of which is guaranteed to be reviewed or production-ready.

Reviewer 6: this is a great explanation

GitHub Radius solves both of these challenges by splitting the problem in two: AI is used to model the application, while the infrastructure is provisioned using deterministic, community-reviewed and maintained IaC modules. The result is developers never have to worry about creating or maintaining IaC or other deployment scripts and artifacts.

**Q3: Who is GitHub Radius for?**

GitHub Radius is built for individual developers, business and data analysts building lightweight applications, and engineering teams at small businesses building line-of-business applications, prototypes, and internal tools. It is also for maintainers of open-source projects who want their contributors and evaluators to be able to deploy the project to their own cloud with a single conversation. GitHub Radius assumes the developer is comfortable with Git and GitHub but is not a Kubernetes operator or a cloud infrastructure expert.

GitHub Radius is not built for enterprise platform teams operating shared infrastructure for hundreds of developers. Teams with those requirements should continue to use the Kubernetes-hosted version of Radius.

**Q4: Why is GitHub Radius delivered inside the Copilot app?**

> The Copilot app is the next generation of developer user experience. The terminal, the IDE, and the cloud console were each designed for a world in which the human typed every instruction. The Copilot app is designed for a world in which the human expresses intent and an AI agent does the work. GitHub Radius is built for that world. By living inside the Copilot app, GitHub Radius can be invoked the same way every other Copilot capability is invoked: the developer says what they want, and Copilot does it.

Reviewer 4: Should we, later in the document,  clarify the differentiation from GitHub Spark. Spark provides an AI-driven “build and publish” experience where developers can create and deploy applications through Copilot into a GitHub-managed hosting/runtime environment.

Author: Added **Q22: How does GitHub Radius compare to GitHub Spark?**

GitHub Spark and GitHub Radius solve different problems. Spark creates new micro apps from scratch through natural language conversation. The developer describes what they want, Spark generates the code and hosts the result on GitHub's infrastructure. The developer never sees a cloud account or a deployment step because Spark owns the full stack.

GitHub Radius starts where the developer already has code in a repository and wants to deploy it to their own cloud account. The developer keeps full ownership of the source code, the cloud resources, and the deployment architecture. Radius models the existing application, deploys it to AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud, and manages the lifecycle over time.

In short: Spark is for creating and hosting new lightweight apps on GitHub. Radius is for deploying existing applications from repositories to the developer's own cloud infrastructure. The two are complementary.

###

Traditional cloud providers and IaC tools are infrastructure-centric. They manage individual cloud resources such as virtual machines, databases, and identity bindings, with no built-in understanding of which application those resources belong to. GitHub Radius is application-centric. The application is the unit of definition, deployment, and lifecycle. Every cloud resource Radius creates is owned by the application that created it, which makes promotion, drift detection, and clean teardown straightforward.

**Q6: How does GitHub Radius work end to end?**

When a developer uses Copilot to deploy an application, three steps are involved.

First, Copilot analyzes the repository. It looks at the source layout, Dockerfiles, framework hints, and declared dependencies, and produces a model of the application referred to as the *application graph*. This application graph includes abstract application resources that compose the application such as web services, workers, and databases, along with the relationships between them. Developers can explore this graph and the details of each resource in the Deployment panel in the Copilot app and ask Copilot to make changes as needed.

> Second, before the application can be deployed, an environment must be defined. Before deploying, Copilot will help the developer define a deployment environment in AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud and configure authentication between Copilot and the cloud provider. Once the environment has been selected, Copilot will update the application graph on the Deployment panel with cloud provider-specific placeholder resources so the developer can examine exactly what cloud resources are planned. 

Reviewer 7: google cloud  support is to be built right?

Reviewer 7: nvm, its answered later

> [!NOTE]
>
> **Internal**: Export to Bicep is not a MVP feature. See the fast-follow list in Q25.

### Internal FAQs

**Q21: How is GitHub Radius different from the Kubernetes-based versions of Radius?**

Earlier versions of Radius were delivered as a Kubernetes-hosted control plane with a `rad` CLI as the primary client. That shape is the right fit for enterprise platform teams running shared infrastructure for many developers, and it remains the right option for those teams. GitHub Radius is a different delivery of the same core idea, optimized for individual developers, small teams, and open-source maintainers who are using the Copilot app. Key changes include:

* The Radius control plane (referred to as the Radius deployment engine above for customers) runs ephemerally in a GitHub Actions runner instead of permanently on Kubernetes. 

> * The GitHub Radius data store is a set of JSON files in a Git orphaned branch named `.radius` rather than etcd. 

Reviewer 6: we should be careful here to not store sensitive data publicly in users' GitHub repos. we may want to create an external store model (like Terraform)

We do not have concrete plans to ship Repo Radius as a standalone deployment option today. GitHub Radius is the priority.

**Q23: Why are application definitions no longer in Bicep? Doesn't that go against our objective with Radius?**

In GitHub Radius, developers no longer define applications in Bicep. Bicep continues to be used under the hood for deployments but the application definition itself is a JSON graph the Radius skills read and write to directly. When a human authored infrastructure, Bicep provided type checking, IDE autocomplete, schema-driven validation, and reviewable text diffs in pull requests. Every one of those capabilities exists because a human is the one typing, and humans make mistakes that a type system can catch before deployment.

The objective of Radius has always been to let developers work at the application level rather than the infrastructure level. Bicep was the means, not the end. It was the best available means when the consumer of the application definition was a human typing in an editor. In GitHub Radius, the human is not the one typing. The AI agent is. That changes several things.

> First, an AI agent does not benefit from the affordances Bicep provides to humans. It does not need autocomplete; it generates complete definitions. It does not need syntax highlighting or bracket matching; it reads and writes structured data natively. It does not need a compiler to catch type errors; it validates against JSON Schema at the tool boundary before any write is committed. The capabilities that made Bicep essential for human authors are redundant when the author is an AI agent.

Reviewer 6: we will have to make sure that the AI agent output results in valid "app definition". previously we could do this using Bicep

> First, an AI agent does not benefit from the affordances Bicep provides to humans. It does not need autocomplete; it generates complete definitions. It does not need syntax highlighting or bracket matching; it reads and writes structured data natively. It does not need a compiler to catch type errors; it validates against JSON Schema at the tool boundary before any write is committed. The capabilities that made Bicep essential for human authors are redundant when the author is an AI agent.

Reviewer 6: also, re-think extensibility (Bicep Extensions -> ???)

Reviewer 5: what do you mean by that, Will?

Reviewer 6: if we don't have bicep, then we don't have bicep extensions. which means that the extensibility model (package types into a bicep extension) simply won't work

Author: Correct my thinking here. Bicep extensions are for client-side type and schema validation. It's used in VS Code for developers and by the Bicep compiler to transform Bicep to JSON. In GitHub Radius' case, the JSON is written directly to the application graph by the skill.

Therefore, we would need a mechanism for schema and type validation in the skill.

Second, inserting Bicep between the AI agent and the application graph creates two sources of truth and a translation layer between them. The AI agent would have to generate .bicep files, invoke the Bicep compiler to produce the graph, and then reconcile any compilation errors—all to arrive at the same JSON the AI agent could have generated directly. Every round-trip through that translation layer is an opportunity for the two representations to diverge. Removing the intermediary does not reduce safety; it increases it, because there is exactly one representation of the application and no translation step where meaning can be lost.

> Third, Bicep requires tooling. The Bicep compiler must be installed, kept up to date, and invoked as a build step. In a world where 100% of interaction happens inside the Copilot app, every external tool dependency is friction. The developer should not need to install a compiler to deploy an application any more than they should need to install a CLI. By writing directly to the application graph, GitHub Radius eliminates the Bicep compiler, the Bicep extensions, the `bicepconfig.json`, and the build step that Bicep would require which keeps the entire lifecycle inside the Copilot app with zero local tooling.

Reviewer 3: I'm a bit confused by this. Is this suggesting that we're changing the way `rad deploy` works or just that the human interaction with an `app.bicep` is removed? We'd still need an app.bicep during deployments

Author: My vision is foggy here, so please help me @willtsai. In the fullness of time, here is what I'm imagining. Short-term would obviously be different.

1. Rather than the application definition being stored in the app.bicep, it is stored in the application graph. We've referred to this as the **modeled application view**. The application graph looks like:
```
  Radius.Core/applications: todo-list-app
  ├── Radius.Compute/containers: app
  |   └── Radius.Compute/containerImages: app-image
  └── Radius.Data/mySqlDatabases: mysql
```
2. When the user asks to deploy to an AWS environment, for example, the application graph is enriched with cloud resources with placeholder IDs. We've referred to this as the **planned application graph view**. Now the graph has:
```
  Radius.Core/applications: todo-list-app
  ├── Radius.Compute/containers: app
  |   ├── AWS.EKS/deployment: TBD
  |   ├── AWS.EKS/service: TBD
  |   └── Radius.Compute/containerImages: app-image
  |       └── AWS.ECR/containerImages: TBD
  └── Radius.Data/mySqlDatabases: mysql
```
3. When the deployment completes, the TBD values are replaced with the cloud provider resource ID. This is the **deployed application graph view**.

Reviewer: I think it's the right mental model for storing the app graph, but I'm still a bit hazy on how the app definition can move away from Bicep, given that all the tooling and deployment flows are Bicep specific today (I suspect that's the root of Shruthi's feedback). 
 
In my mind, today we have: 
- user-->app.bicep-->rad-cli-->JSONAppGraph(modeled, planned)
- user-->app.bicep-->rad-cli-->ARMJSON-->KVAppGraph(deployed)

You're proposing to change that, but just for Copilot:
- copilot-->JSONAppGraph(modeled, planned)
- copilot-->JSONAppGraph-->rad-cli-->ARMJSON-->JSONAppGraph(deployed)

Where I'm hazy on is that now we'll have two sets of app def formats and we need to build the translation layer between the two formats, assuming that we think human users will still use bicep app def while machine users leverage a JSON app def. Is that what you're thinking?

Reviewer 4: i'm missing how the application graph is being generated. is it based on existing compiled bicep json types, if not then can u describe further ?. Another question brought up was what if resource code in the repo does not conform to existing types .. what is our approach then.

**Q24: What new features does GitHub Radius introduce over the Kubernetes-based version?**

GitHub Radius introduces several new capabilities. The following constitutes the GitHub Radius minimum-viable product (MVP):

> * **Application inference from source code.** Kubernetes-based Radius requires the developer to manually author the application definition in Bicep. GitHub Radius analyzes the repo (source layout, Dockerfiles, framework hints, dependencies) and models the application automatically. 

Reviewer 6: with this broad description, this becomes a pretty difficult problem. what if it's wrong?

Reviewer 5: I assume having a rich set of types in the contrib repo will help but how are we thinking about true user-defined types that have no equivalent?

Author: @Reshrahim

* **Git-native graph storage.** Kubernetes-based Radius stores state in etcd on a Kubernetes cluster. The `.radius` orphan branch means "clone the repo and you can deploy" — no external state store to provision. This also enables auditable history via git diff.
* **Deployment to external EKS and AKS clusters**. Because GitHub Radius no longer runs as a perpetually-running Kubernetes-hosted control plane, GitHub Radius has the ability to deploy to an EKS or AKS cluster other than its host.

**Q25: Once GitHub Radius launches, what are the fast-follow features?**

After GitHub Radius launches, the following are fast-follow features:

* **Drift detection and reconciliation.** Kubernetes-based Radius lacks a "what's different between my application graph and what's actually deployed?" capability. GitHub Radius adds explicit drift detection with two reconciliation paths (update application graph to match reality, or redeploy to match application graph).

> * **Export to Bicep**. To support a migration from GitHub Radius to Kubernetes-based Radius, GitHub Radius will have the ability to export an `app.bicep` file for one or all applications stored in GitHub Radius.

Reviewer 6: if we keep ARM-JSON as the model format, we can "un-compile" to Bicep

Author: Promising. I did this but got an errro:
```
bicep build todolist.bicep
bicep decompile todolist.json --stdout
WARNING: Decompilation is a best-effort process, as there is no guaranteed mapping from ARM JSON to Bicep Template or Bicep Parameters.
You may need to fix warnings and errors in the generated bicep/bicepparam file(s), or decompilation may fail entirely if an accurate conversion is not possible.
If you would like to report any issues or inaccurate conversions, please see https://github.com/Azure/bicep/issues.
/Users/zcasper/radius/demos/simple/todolist.json: Decompilation failed with fatal error "[23:16]: Decompilation of symbolic name templates is not currently supported"
```
It puked on the first `  "resources": {` line.

* **Google Cloud support**. As with Kubernetes-based Radius, support for Google Cloud is planned but is not considered a MVP requirement.
* **Additional serverless platform support.** In addition to supporting Kubernetes and ACI today, GitHub Radius will support ECS, ACA, and Cloud Run (in this order) in the future.

**Q26: What about the existing resource types and recipes in the `resource-types-contrib` repo?**

GitHub Radius continues to use resource types and recipes as the mechanism by which abstract application resources become concrete cloud resources. The Radius `resource-types-contrib` recipe library is reused, now with greater importance. What changes is the expectation of how mature and comprehensive the resource types and recipes must be.

> In Kubernetes-based Radius, the enterprise's platform engineer was expected to either bring their own recipes or substantially customize Radius' recipes. In GitHub Radius, the Radius project is now responsible for ensuring the resource types and recipes are production ready and follow security and cost best practices. Because of this shift, the Radius project will need to invest more resources in the development, testing, and maturing of the existing recipe library.

Reviewer 6: or, use @Reshrahim 's direct module design

**Q27: How does the developer know Radius is involved?**

By design, they do not, unless they look. The Copilot app is the surface. The conversation is the interface. The application graph is stored in their repository. If a developer wants to understand how the capability works or where to ask for help, a discreet "powered by Radius" reference and an `/about` command in the skills point at the Radius project and community. We expect the vast majority of users will never need either.

**Q28: What is the relationship between GitHub Radius and the Kubernetes-based version going forward?** 

Our objective remains the broad adoption of Kubernetes-based Radius by enterprises. GitHub Radius is targeted at a distinctly different non-enterprise persona. We believe that, with Radius built into the Copilot app, enterprises will gain greater exposure to Radius, which will drive adoption of Kubernetes-based Radius. 

> Developers who use GitHub Radius for side projects and prototypes will encounter Radius's application graph, and when they move to an enterprise team with shared infrastructure needs, they will already understand the mental model and advocate for Kubernetes-based Radius.

Reviewer 6: I think we will need a stronger glue point than this. this seems like two separate projects

GitHub Radius is available in public preview today for anyone with access to the Copilot app. To get started, open the Copilot app, add a repository, and ask Copilot to deploy the application. Learn more at https://radapp.io.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### General FAQs

**Q1: What is GitHub Radius?**

GitHub Radius is a capability inside the GitHub Copilot application that lets developers define, deploy, and operate cloud-native applications through conversation. It analyzes a repository to produce an application model, walks the developer through connecting a cloud environment, deploys the application on request, and can detect differences between the application deployment's desired and actual state. The developer only needs to interact with the Copilot app.

> **Q2: What problem does GitHub Radius solve?**

Reviewer 8: The problem statement still reads somewhat platform-centric. Sharpening toward customer pain (what is hard today, what fails in real setups, why current approaches are insufficient).

**Q20: What happens when I am done with a project?**

The developer asks Copilot to tear down a specific environment or every environment for the application. Copilot highlights on the Deployment panel exactly what will be destroyed, requires explicit confirmation, and dispatches a teardown workflow.

**Q21: How can I migrate from GitHub Radius to Kubernetes-based Radius?**

Migrating from GitHub Radius to Kubernetes-based Radius is easy. Both Radius options use the same set of resource types and recipes. After you install Radius on your Kubernetes cluster and configure your environments, ask Copilot to export your applications as Bicep files. You can take these `app.bicep` files and deploy them using `rad deploy`. It is not possible to migrate environments, credentials, or deployed applications from GitHub Radius to Kubernetes-based Radius.

> [!NOTE]
>
> **Internal**: Export to Bicep is not a MVP feature. See the fast-follow list in Q27.

> **Q22: How does GitHub Radius compare to GitHub Spark?**

Reviewer 8: Value is mostly qualitative. Consider adding concrete success metrics (onboarding time, standardization %, drift reduction) to make impact measurable.

* Resource groups are not used in GitHub Radius.
* Workspaces are not used in GitHub Radius.

**Q24: How does GitHub Radius relate to Repo Radius?**

Repo Radius was an earlier effort with the goal to ship a version of Radius for platform engineers to run within their continuous deployment pipeline, specifically GitHub Actions. It leveraged the Kubernetes-based Radius, adding capabilities to deploy to external Kubernetes clusters and store state in a Git repository rather than etcd.

GitHub Radius is an end-to-end solution for GitHub developers built around the Copilot app. It is the deployment feature of the Copilot app rather than an open-source distribution of the project. GitHub Radius includes the same technical capabilities as Repo Radius (external Kubernetes, Git storage), but has a different UX, is targeted to a different user persona, and is packaged and distributed differently.

We do not have concrete plans to ship Repo Radius as a standalone deployment option today. GitHub Radius is the priority.

> **Q25: Why are application definitions no longer in Bicep? Doesn't that go against our objective with Radius?**

Reviewer 8: Missing a crisp, concrete "golden path" example. Suggest adding a simple end‑to‑end scenario showing how a platform team uses this in practice and what improves.

> In GitHub Radius, developers no longer define applications in Bicep. Bicep continues to be used under the hood for deployments but the application definition itself is a JSON graph the Radius skills read and write to directly. When a human authored infrastructure, Bicep provided type checking, IDE autocomplete, schema-driven validation, and reviewable text diffs in pull requests. Every one of those capabilities exists because a human is the one typing, and humans make mistakes that a type system can catch before deployment.

Reviewer 4: for Q21 above, is the idea that we can export from json graph -> bicep ? or internally it is bicep -> json graph which is stored and for migrating, we generate bicep again?

Our primary objective is building GitHub Radius. However, in several situations it is appropriate to generalize new GitHub Radius features and deliver them as Radius features in both GitHub Radius and Kubernetes-based Radius. These generalizable features include:

* Deployment to external EKS and AKS clusters
* Drift detection and reconciliation

Kubernetes-based Radius will also benefit from the larger number of resource types and more mature recipes in the `resource-types-contrib` repository.

**Q32: What new GitHub Radius features are not generalizable but could be implemented in Kubernetes-based Radius?**

Many other new GitHub Radius features could be implemented in Kubernetes-based Radius. However, they are not generalizable enough across the two solutions. 

* Deep linking from the application graph can be implemented in the Radius Dashboard and the Radius plug-in for Headlamp.
* Preview deployments can be implemented in `rad deploy`.
* Guided credentialing can be implemented in `rad init`.

These features will be considered as capacity allows, but the primary investment is in GitHub Radius.

> 

Reviewer 8: The FAQ should more directly address "why not alternatives" (Crossplane, Terraform + GitOps, internal platforms, etc). This is critical for credibility with platform engineers.
